Gloo Fed Multicluster RBAC guide (#3427)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/guides/gloo_federation/multicluster_rbac.md

---
title: Multicluster RBAC
description: Applying role-based access control to multiple Gloo instances
weight: 40
---

> Gloo Federation allows you to administer multiple instances of Gloo across multiple Kubernetes clusters. Multicluster role-based access control is a feature of Gloo Federation that controls access and actions on Gloo instances across multiple Kubernetes clusters. The feature ensures that users only have access to the resources they are supposed to, no matter where they are, and which Gloo instance they belong to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gloo Federation allows you to administer multiple instances of Gloo across multiple Kubernetes clusters. One Gloo Federation object might modify configuration across many instances of Gloo across many Kubernetes clusters. Multicluster role-based access control is a feature of Gloo Federation that controls access and actions on Gloo Federation APIs that might reconfigure many Gloo instances. The feature ensures that users are only allowed to modify Gloo Federation resources that configure Gloo resources in clusters and namespaces that they have explicitly been granted access to in order to facilitate multitenancy in the Gloo Federation control plane.
```

Reviewer: or something to this effect -- trying to highlight the ways that this goes above and beyond kubernetes rbac, and call out why it's useful in the context of GF

For the purposes of this example, we have two clusters `local` and `remote`. The local cluster is also running Gloo Federation in addition to Gloo Enterprise. The kubectl context for the local cluster is `kind-local` and the remote cluster is `kind-remote`.

## Enable Multicluster RBAC

Multicluster RBAC can be enabled during Gloo Federation installation by overriding the `enableMultiClusterRbac` value in the helm chart to `true`. To do so, you would run the following `glooctl` command:

```bash
echo "enableMultiClusterRbac: true" > values.yaml

glooctl install federation --values values.yaml --license-key LICENSE_KEY
```

On an existing installation, the `enableMultiClusterRbac` setting can be updated by running `helm upgrade` and overriding the value. Enabling the Multicluster RBAC feature creates an RBAC webhook and pod enforcing permissions on the Gloo Federation API groups.

In the demonstration environment, we will upgrade the existing Gloo Federation installation by running the following:

```bash
# Add the gloo-fed helm repo

> helm repo add gloo-fed https://storage.googleapis.com/gloo-fed-helm

Reviewer: would you mind adding the helm option to the install doc as well?

Author: Added!

# Update your repos 
helm repo update

# Upgrade your Gloo Federation deployment
# Assumes your install is called gloo-fed in the gloo-fed namspace

> helm upgrade -n gloo-fed gloo-fed gloo-fed/gloo-fed --set enableMultiClusterRbac=true

Reviewer: note to self: we will need to address the license key upgrade UX issue before sending this doc live

rbac-validating-webhook-gloo-fed   1/1     1            1           33m
```

### Examine the Custom Resources
The installation of Multicluster RBAC also creates two MultiClusterRole Custom Resources and two MultiClusterRoleBinding Custom Resources.

```bash
kubectl get multiclusterrole -n gloo-fed 
```

```console
NAME               AGE
gloo-fed           35m
gloo-fed-console   35m
```

```bash
kubectl get multiclusterrolebinding -n gloo-fed
```

```console
NAME               AGE
gloo-fed           35m
gloo-fed-console   35m
```

The `gloo-fed` MutliClusterRole defines a role with permissions to take any actions across all Gloo instances in all clusters. The relevant portion of the spec is shown below:

```yaml
spec:
  rules:
  - apiGroup: fed.solo.io
    placements:
    - clusters:
      - '*'
      namespaces:
      - '*'
  - apiGroup: fed.gloo.solo.io
    placements:
    - clusters:
      - '*'
      namespaces:
      - '*'
  - apiGroup: fed.gateway.solo.io
    placements:
    - clusters:
      - '*'
      namespaces:
      - '*'
  - apiGroup: fed.enterprise.gloo.solo.io
    placements:
    - clusters:
      - '*'
      namespaces:
      - '*'
```

> The `gloo-fed` MultiClusterRoleBinding associates the MultiClusterRole with the `gloo-fed` service account. Without the binding, the gloo-fed pod wouldn't be able to make changes to the Gloo Federation installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `gloo-fed` MultiClusterRoleBinding associates the MultiClusterRole with the `gloo-fed` service account. Without the binding, the gloo-fed pod wouldn't be able to update the status of Gloo Federation API objects.
```

```yaml
spec:
  roleRef:
    name: gloo-fed
    namespace: gloo-fed
  subjects:
  - kind: User
    name: system:serviceaccount:gloo-fed:gloo-fed
```

The `gloo-fed-console` MultiClusterRole and MultiClusterRoleBinding grant the same set of permissions to the `gloo-fed-console` service account.

## Create Roles and Bindings

> In the previous section we installed Multicluster RBAC. The process created a MultiClusterRole and MultiClusterRoleBinding for both the `gloo-fed` and `gloo-fed-console` service account. It did not create any role or binding for the kubernetes-admin account, which means that we cannot make any changes to the Gloo Federation custom resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous section we installed Multicluster RBAC. The process created a MultiClusterRole and MultiClusterRoleBinding for both the `gloo-fed` and `gloo-fed-console` service account. It did not create any role or binding for the default kind user account, kubernetes-admin, which means that we cannot make any changes to the Gloo Federation custom resources.
```
